
SPLIB contains codes, generators, and generator inputs for shortest
paths algorithms. For a detailed description, see
"Shortest Paths Algorithms: Theory and Experimental Evaluation,"
by B.V. Cherkassky, A.V. Goldberg, and T. Radzik, Math Programming,
Vol. 73, pages 129--174, 1996.

The programs and scripts are designed to run under BSD UNIX.
All programs read from the standard input and write to the standard
output. Run "make" to compile the programs and generators.
File list lists the programs produced my "make".

The following subdirectories are used:

  "src": contains source code for the shortest paths programs and 
         generators;
  "inputs": contains generator inputs and a test file "test.sp";
  "bin": is used for compiled binaries;
  "results": is used to store experimental results;
  "doc": contains documentation (see below).

The "doc" directory contains the following files.

  "format": the shortest paths problem format;
  "version": SPLIB version information;
  "spgrid", "sprand", "scacyc": descriptions of the corresponding 
                                generators.

To test a shortest path code "foo" on a problem class "xyz", first 
make sure that the executable "foo" is in the "bin" directory and 
the cshell script "xyz" is in the "inputs" directory. Then run "xyz foo" 
in the "inputs" directory. The results of the experiment are stored 
in the file "results/foo.xyz".

If different directory structure is desired, "makefile" and scripts
in the "inputs" directory should be edited to achieve the desired result.
Also, "makefile" can be modified to use different C compiler or 
different compiler options. Additional scripts can be created to 
facilitate testing or to create new problem families.

SPLIB was developed by Boris Cherkassky (cher@ch.comrel.msk.su),
Andrew Goldberg (goldberg@cs.stanford.edu), and Tomasz Radzik
(radzik@cs.cornell.edu).

The programs are available on "as is" basis. They are not guaranteed to
be free of bugs, and the authors assume no responsibility for any
potential problems. 
