FILE FORMAT FOR SHORTEST PATHS PROBLEM.


The format used to represent the shortest paths problems is obtained by
augmenting the First DIMACS Implementation Challenge file format.


Same as in  the DIMACS format:

- all the files contain ASCII characters;

- the format is case-sensitive;

- input file contains several types of lines described below;

- a line is terminated with the end-of-line character;

- each line begins with a character identifying the line type;

- each line consists of fields separated by at least one blank space;

- most line type corresponds to the DIMACS types.

Differences from DIMACS format:

- we don't assume any suffix of input file although .sp is recommended.

- no format for the solution file is specified, since it is 
  application-dependent. Our programs produce the sum of node distances
  and the performance data.

LINE TYPES

Each line begins with one-character line designator.

1. Comment line [optional].

  Line designator - "c".

  Comment lines are ignored by the program while reading input. 
  Comment lines can appear anywhere in the file.
  Comments are useful for documenting a problem instance.

  An example:

  c This is comment line, as you see.

2. Title line [optional].

  Line designator - "t".

  Title line contains one field - the name of the problem. There is one
  or zero title lines per input file. The name of the problem is useful
  to identify the problem in the output. Title line may appear anywhere
  in the file. If there is no title line problem name is assumed to be
  "unknown".

  Format:

  t NAME

  where the NAME field contains an arbitrary character string without spaces.
  No restriction is assumed on the name of the problem but implementations
  may impose restrictions. Our implementations take first 30 characters from 
  the name field and ignore the rest.

  An example:

  t rd_10001_60000_s_

3. PROBLEM LINE.

  Line designator - "p".

  The problem line specifies the problem size. It contains three fields: 
  problem specification, the number of nodes and the number of arcs. 
  There is one problem line per file. It must appear before any node or 
  arc lines.

  Format:

  p PROBLEM NODES ARCS

  The PROBLEM field must contain two-character problem designator "sp"
  that designates the problem as a shortest paths problem.

  The NODES field contains a positive integer n, the number of nodes in 
  the network.

  The ARCS field contains a positive integer m, the number of arcs in 
  the network.

  The format place no restrictions on the values of n and m, but the programs
  and the machine memory size may restrict these values.

  An example:

  p sp 10001 60000

4. NODE LINE.

  Line designator - "n".

  The node line is intended for specifying the source - the root
  of shortest paths tree. The node lines must appear after the problem 
  line but before any arc lines. The file must contain at least one node
  line. The current versions of our shortest path codes assume that the
  source is unique.

  Format:

  n SOURCE

  The SOURCE field gives a source id between 1 and n.

  An example:

  n 10001

5. ARC LINE.

  Line designator - "a".

  An arc line corresponds to one arc of the network. Each arc line
  specifies the arc's tail, head, and length. There must be exactly
  m arc lines in the file. They must appear after the node line. 

  Format:

  a TAIL HEAD LENGTH

  For the directed arc A(i,j) the TAIL field contains i and the HEAD
  fields contains j, ids of the head and the tail nodes, which are integers
  between 1 and n. The LENGTH field specifies the length of the arc and
  must contain an integer between -2^31 and 2^31 - 1. Although no other 
  restrictions are assumed on the arc lengths, additional limits may be placed
  by the implementations to make sure that the distances are small enough not
  to cause overflows.

  An example:

  a 10001 1 0
